# Estimates Automation

## Project Overview

Estimates Automation is a project which automates the following:

1. The creation of wide Estimates tables for whatever vintage/geography/table you want.
2. The creation of Diff files for whatever vintage/geography/table you want.
3. The creation of California Department of Finance tables.
4. Various checks on the downloaded data.

All outputs of this project are saved by default using the following file structure:
```
Estimates_Automation
├───data
│   ├───raw_data: Where wide Estimates tables will be saved and where CA DOF files should be saved.
│   ├───diff: Where diff files will be saved.
│   ├───CA_DOF: Where transformed CA DOF files will be saved.
│   └───outputs: Where check outputs will be saved.
└───docs: Where technical documentation is saved.
```

### File Naming Convention
All files created by Estimates Automation follow the general naming convention of "QA_{vintage}\_{geography level}\_{table name}.{extension}", although exact name may vary depending on circumstances. In general, file naming convention goes from most general to most specific, with naming terms separated by underscores ("_"). For more guidelines, see the docstring for [functions.save](./docs/functions.md#kbdfunctionkbd-save).

---

## Usage Instructions

### Dependencies

Estimates Automation depends on a few different packages which can be found in [requirements.txt](./requirements.txt). To install dependencies, run the following code in your command line:

```pip install -r "./requirements.txt"```

If you would prefer using conda or some other package manager, I'm sure you can figure out how to install the requirements

### Running the code

The file [example_usage.ipynb](./example_usage.ipynb) has code already written which can generate all files and run all checks. Open the notebook in your favorite editor and run every cell. Note that Estimates Automation will create the data file structure as defined in Project Overview.

NOTE! Downloading Estimates files creates connections to both [DDAMWSQL16] and [sql2014b8]. These connections use Windows Authentication, which means you need to be logged into your SANDAG account and connected to the SANDAG network, whether you are in the office on Ethernet, or through VPN. Although it is possible to pass in username/password through sqlalchemy, I would not recommend it due to the high chance of forgetting to remove them from code and exposing your credentials to the public.

---

## Technical Documentation

All technical documentation can be found in [docs/](./docs/), with the API overview being the file [README.md](./docs/README.md). The README.md file contains a one line description of every file, class, and function present in Estimates Automation. For additional details on any file, class, or function, simply click the link in the name.

### Updating Technical Documentation

All technical documentation was autogenerated using [lazydocs](https://github.com/ml-tooling/lazydocs) with docstring validation done by [pydocstyle](https://github.com/PyCQA/pydocstyle). Both lazydocs and pydocstyle expect Google style docstrings, and documentation generation will fail if Google style docstrings are not rigidly adhered to. You can find the technical specification for Google style docstrings [here](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html#38-comments-and-docstrings) and some example Google-style docstrings [here](https://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_google.html).

In order to generate a new version of technical documentation, navigate to the base folder of Estimates Automation and run in the command line:

```lazydocs --validate --overview-file="README.md" .```

The ```--validate``` flag will make the generation process fail if pydocstyle raises any errors. It is highly recommended that you fix the errors and keep the ```--validate``` flag. If you ignore the errors by removing the ```--validate``` flag, the documentation generation process will either fail or result in poorly formatted documentation.
